{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl
{\f0 Calibri;}
{\f1 Courier New;}
}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa240\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs32 Atlas Corp Blockchain Supply Chain System\par
\b0\fs22 Plain-English Technical Explainer\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 1. What This Document Is\par
\b0\fs22 This document explains the Atlas Corp counterfeit-prevention project for a complete outsider. It covers:\par
- what blockchain means\par
- how this project uses blockchain\par
- where data is stored\par
- what can and cannot be changed\par
- how fraud detection works\par
- what the transaction hash means\par
- how the full system works from start to finish\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 2. The Business Problem\par
\b0\fs22 Atlas Corp sells spare parts. The company needs a way to prove that a part delivered to a customer is genuine and moved through the approved supply chain.\par
\par
The risk is that counterfeit parts can enter somewhere between manufacturing and final sale. If records are kept in a normal editable system, someone can tamper with them, create fake entries, or hide missing steps.\par
\par
This project addresses that by storing the lifecycle of each product on a blockchain and then checking that lifecycle for suspicious patterns.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 3. What Blockchain Means Here\par
\b0\fs22 A blockchain is a ledger. A ledger is simply a record of events. In a blockchain, records are grouped into blocks, and each block is linked to the previous one using cryptography.\par
\par
That linking makes later tampering very difficult. If someone changes old data, the cryptographic links no longer match. In a real distributed network, the mismatch is visible immediately because other nodes still hold the original chain.\par
\par
In simple terms, blockchain gives this project three useful properties:\par
- append-only history\par
- strong tamper resistance\par
- shared verifiable records\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 4. What Hashing Means\par
\b0\fs22 Hashing is a one-way mathematical process that turns input data into a fixed-length output.\par
\par
Example idea:\par
- input: AX1001\par
- output: a long cryptographic fingerprint\par
\par
Important properties of a hash:\par
- the same input always gives the same output\par
- a tiny input change gives a very different output\par
- you cannot realistically reverse the hash to recover the original input\par
\par
Why blockchain uses hashing:\par
- each block references previous block data through hashes\par
- transactions are identified by hashes\par
- hashing helps detect tampering\par
\par
Important project-specific clarification:\par
This Atlas project does not create a custom hash field for each product and store it as product data. Instead, Ethereum internally hashes transactions and state updates. The hash you usually see in the UI or backend response is the transaction hash, not a special product hash.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 5. What Kind of Blockchain This Project Uses\par
\b0\fs22 This is a permissioned blockchain design running on a private Ethereum-style network using Hardhat for local development.\par
\par
Permissioned means not everyone can write to the ledger. Only approved actors can add supply-chain events.\par
\par
That matters because Atlas does not want anonymous internet users writing fake transfer records.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 6. The Main Parts of the System\par
\b0\fs22 The system has five modules:\par
\par
1. Frontend Interface\par
Used by customers and internal staff.\par
\par
2. Backend API\par
Receives requests, validates them, talks to blockchain, and calls fraud analysis.\par
\par
3. Blockchain Network\par
Stores the official product lifecycle record.\par
\par
4. Fraud Detection Layer\par
Checks whether the product movement looks suspicious.\par
\par
5. Fraud Intelligence Dashboard\par
Shows alerts, risk scores, and suspicious supply-chain paths.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 7. Where Data Is Stored\par
\b0\fs22 There are two storage areas in this project.\par
\par
\b On-chain storage\par
\b0 Stored in the smart contract in:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\blockchain\contracts\AtlasSupplyChain.sol\f0\par
\par
This stores the product record itself.\par
\par
\b Off-chain runtime storage\par
\b0 Stored temporarily in backend memory in:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\backend\src\services\alertStore.js\f0\par
\par
This stores fraud alerts, graph summaries, and risk scores while the backend is running.\par
\par
This version does not use a persistent database like MySQL, PostgreSQL, or MongoDB. That means dashboard alert data is temporary. If the backend restarts, those in-memory alert summaries reset. The blockchain product history remains on the running chain.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 8. What Product Data Looks Like\par
\b0\fs22 In the smart contract, each product is stored roughly like this:\par
\par
\f1 Product\par
  serialId\par
  manufacturer\par
  exists\par
  events[]\par
\par
Event\par
  role\par
  location\par
  timestamp\par
  actor\par
\f0\par
For a product like AX1001, the blockchain stores the serial ID, the manufacturer name, and a list of every recorded movement event.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 9. Full System Flow From Start to Finish\par
\b0\fs22 Step 1: A user submits data in the frontend.\par
Examples:\par
- register product AX1001\par
- record transfer to Logistics in Mumbai\par
\par
Step 2: The frontend sends an HTTP request to the backend API.\par
\par
Step 3: The backend validates the input.\par
It checks fields like serial ID, role, and location before doing anything else.\par
\par
Step 4: The backend sends a blockchain transaction using ethers.js.\par
If it is a registration, it calls:\par
\f1 registerProduct(serialId, manufacturer)\f0\par
If it is a transfer, it calls:\par
\f1 transferProduct(serialId, role, location)\f0\par
\par
Step 5: The smart contract updates on-chain state.\par
The product record is created or a new event is appended.\par
\par
Step 6: Ethereum returns a transaction hash.\par
That hash identifies the blockchain transaction that just happened.\par
\par
Step 7: The backend reads the updated full history for that product.\par
\par
Step 8: The backend sends the history to the fraud-analysis layer.\par
\par
Step 9: The fraud-analysis layer checks the product path for anomalies.\par
\par
Step 10: The backend stores the alert summary in memory for the dashboard.\par
\par
Step 11: The frontend displays the result.\par
Customers see product verification. Internal teams see dashboard alerts and risk indicators.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 10. What the Smart Contract Actually Does\par
\b0\fs22 The smart contract has these main functions:\par
\par
\f1 registerProduct(string serialId, string manufacturer)\par
transferProduct(string serialId, string role, string location)\par
getProduct(string serialId)\par
getProductHistory(string serialId)\par
setAuthorizedActor(address actor, bool authorized)\par
\f0\par
What each one means:\par
\par
\b registerProduct\par
\b0 Creates a product record for a new serial number. It also writes the first lifecycle event as Manufacturer at Factory.\par
\par
\b transferProduct\par
\b0 Adds a new movement event for an existing product.\par
\par
\b getProduct and getProductHistory\par
\b0 Read the stored on-chain data.\par
\par
\b setAuthorizedActor\par
\b0 Lets the contract owner decide which blockchain addresses are allowed to write events.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 11. Where the Hash Is Stored\par
\b0\fs22 In this project, there is no explicit product field called something like \f1 productHash\f0.\par
\par
Instead:\par
- Ethereum stores the transaction in a block\par
- that transaction gets a unique transaction hash\par
- the backend returns that transaction hash after registration or transfer\par
\par
So when you see:\par
\f1 txHash: 0x...\f0\par
that is the identifier of the blockchain write operation.\par
\par
It is not a custom hash of AX1001's details.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 12. What Can Be Changed and What Cannot\par
\b0\fs22 This is the key immutability question.\par
\par
Assume product AX1001 has already been registered.\par
\par
\b What cannot be changed later\par
\b0
- the serial ID of the existing product record\par
- the manufacturer stored at registration\par
- past event role values\par
- past event locations\par
- past event timestamps\par
- past event actor addresses\par
\par
\b Why those cannot be changed\par
\b0 Because the smart contract does not contain any function that edits or deletes existing product data.\par
\par
It only allows:\par
- creating a new product once\par
- appending new events\par
\par
The contract also blocks duplicate registration with a check equivalent to:\par
\f1 require(!products[serialId].exists, "Product exists");\f0\par
\par
That means once AX1001 is created, the same serial cannot be registered again through normal contract use.\par
\par
\b What can still change\par
\b0
- new transfer events can be added to AX1001\par
- the owner can authorize or deauthorize actor wallets\par
\par
\b What this means in practice\par
\b0 The product history is append-only. New facts can be added. Old facts cannot be rewritten through the current contract design.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 13. Can AX1001 Be Edited Indirectly\par
\b0\fs22 Not in the current app flow. There is no API or contract function that updates the manufacturer or overwrites old events.\par
\par
However, there is one important engineering nuance:\par
the current backend enforces allowed role values more strictly than the contract does.\par
\par
The backend only allows these roles:\par
- Manufacturer\par
- Logistics\par
- Distributor\par
- Retailer\par
\par
But the contract itself only checks that role and location are non-empty strings. That means an authorized wallet calling the contract directly could submit a strange role string unless stronger on-chain validation is added.\par
\par
So the history is still append-only, but some business-rule enforcement currently depends on the backend and fraud-analysis layer rather than the contract alone.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 14. Why Blockchain Helps Here\par
\b0\fs22 Without blockchain, a normal database administrator could potentially modify old records directly.\par
\par
With blockchain:\par
- the write path is explicit\par
- each accepted write becomes part of chain state\par
- old records are not casually overwritten\par
- the full lifecycle can be verified later\par
\par
This does not mean fraud is impossible. It means fraud becomes harder to hide.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 15. How Fraud Detection Works\par
\b0\fs22 Blockchain gives immutability, but it does not automatically tell you whether a path looks suspicious. That is why this project also includes fraud analysis.\par
\par
There are two main fraud-analysis methods.\par
\par
\b A. Graph validation\par
\b0 The system expects an approved path:\par
\f1 Manufacturer -> Logistics -> Distributor -> Retailer\f0\par
\par
If the path includes:\par
- Manufacturer -> Retailer\par
- Distributor -> Manufacturer\par
- Unknown role transitions\par
then it is flagged as suspicious.\par
\par
This logic is implemented in:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\ai-service\graph_rules.py\f0\par
\par
\b B. Anomaly detection\par
\b0 The system also checks behavioral signals such as:\par
- impossible location jumps\par
- abnormal transfer timing\par
- too many events for one product\par
- machine-learning anomaly score when available\par
\par
This logic is implemented in:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\ai-service\detector.py\f0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 16. Concrete Fraud Examples\par
\b0\fs22 Example 1: Invalid transition\par
If AX1001 goes directly from Manufacturer to Retailer, the system flags it because Logistics and Distributor were skipped.\par
\par
Example 2: Impossible movement\par
If one event says Mumbai and the next says London two hours later, that may be flagged because the travel pattern is unrealistic.\par
\par
Example 3: Excessive scan frequency\par
If the same product is being moved or scanned too many times in a short span, the system may mark that as unusual.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 17. What the Dashboard Data Means\par
\b0\fs22 The dashboard shows derived intelligence, not the raw blockchain state alone.\par
\par
It includes:\par
- suspicious product list\par
- anomaly trend counts\par
- graph summaries\par
- entity risk scores\par
\par
In this version, those dashboard summaries live in backend memory while the server is running. They are not permanently stored in a database.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 18. Important Limitation of This Local Demo\par
\b0\fs22 This project runs on a local Hardhat blockchain for demonstration.\par
\par
That means:\par
- data is immutable within the running local chain session\par
- but if the local Hardhat node is shut down and restarted fresh, the chain state resets\par
\par
So for a classroom demo, the records are blockchain-based and append-only. For real production permanence, Atlas would need a long-running private blockchain network and persistent off-chain analytics storage.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 19. Practical Answer to the AX1001 Question\par
\b0\fs22 If item AX1001 is created, can its details be changed?\par
\par
Answer:\par
- AX1001 can receive additional transfer events\par
- AX1001 cannot have its original product identity rewritten by the current contract\par
- AX1001 cannot have old events edited or deleted by the current contract\par
\par
Why:\par
- there is no edit function in the contract\par
- there is no delete function in the contract\par
- duplicate registration is blocked\par
- event history is append-only\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 20. In One Sentence\par
\b0\fs22 The blockchain stores the official product history, the backend and AI layers analyze whether that history looks trustworthy, and the frontend exposes both verification and fraud visibility to users.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 21. Recommended Improvements\par
\b0\fs22 If this were being hardened beyond a proof of concept, the next improvements should be:\par
- enforce allowed roles on-chain, not only in backend validation\par
- enforce valid role transitions on-chain where appropriate\par
- store fraud alerts in a real database\par
- add wallet-based identities per participant\par
- add QR or NFC product verification\par
- use a persistent private Ethereum network rather than a temporary local chain\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 22. Relevant Source Files\par
\b0\fs22 Smart contract:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\blockchain\contracts\AtlasSupplyChain.sol\f0\par
\par
Backend API:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\backend\src\controllers\productController.js\f0\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\backend\src\services\blockchainService.js\f0\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\backend\src\services\fraudService.js\f0\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\backend\src\services\alertStore.js\f0\par
\par
Fraud logic:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\ai-service\graph_rules.py\f0\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\ai-service\detector.py\f0\par
\par
User interface:\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\frontend\src\pages\VerifyPage.jsx\f0\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\frontend\src\pages\EventPage.jsx\f0\par
\f1 I:\SeM_6\EDAI\frontend\src\pages\DashboardPage.jsx\f0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs26 23. Final Summary\par
\b0\fs22 This Atlas project uses blockchain as an immutable event ledger for product movement. Each product gets a verifiable lifecycle. The backend reads that lifecycle and sends it to a fraud-analysis layer that checks whether the route and behavior match expected supply-chain behavior. Customers can verify authenticity, while Atlas can monitor suspicious activity.\par
\par
The core technical idea is simple: old records are not edited; new records are appended; suspicious patterns are detected from the full recorded history.\par
}
